# Excercise

In this excercise, you will be asked to integrate 2 others tables in the project by implementing DAOs, Factory, repositories and entity class (model).
That will show you the split of responsability as each part do its own job.

## First step

Create DAOs for tables : 
- Playlist
- Tracks

The DAO is responsible to query the database nothing more.

These tables are link through playlist_track table, so keep this in mind during the query elaboration

**Use structed query to have a protection against SQL injection**
```python
return self.execute_query(query= 
                                 f"""
                                SELECT {self._field_id}, {self._field_name}
                                FROM {self.tablename}
                                WHERE {self._field_id} = ?
                                """, 
                                params=(artist_id,), 
                                fetch_one=True, 
                                fetch_all=False)
```

As you see above, the query and the parameters are separated. This is the good practice to avoid SQL injection.


### How to create DAO

1. Create a class file ```src/db/dao/impl/[Tablename]Dao.py``` (eg. ```TrackDao.py```)
2. The class have to extends ```src/db/dao/SQLiteDao.py```
3. Define the database columns name and tablename as variables of your class
4. Define ```def create_table_[tablename]``` method that will return the create table query
3. Add different method like in ```ArtistDao``` class
    - insert
    - update
    - delete
    - get_all
    - get_by_id
4. Create a function in the file ```main.py``` to test and validate your class

***Tips :***
 - *Use a Db Browser to elaborate and test yours queries before doing it in python*
 - *Check out ArtistDao and how it uses ```SQLiteDao``` methods to query database*

## Second step : 

Update the ```SQLiteDbFactory.py``` to add functions that will handle the creation of your newly created DAO ```main.py```

## Thrid step : 

Create yours Entities class (```Track.py``` & ```Playlist.py```) to be able to use them with repository
Create classes representing a row for each tables. See ```src/db/models/Artist.py```

Example : 
```python
from dataclasses import dataclass, field
from datetime import datetime

@dataclass
class Artist:
    """
    Represents a user from Table users.
    """
    artist_id: int = field(default=None) # Use default=None for fields that might be auto-generated by DB
    name: str = field(default=None)
    ....
```

# Fourth step

Now you have DAOs and the object reflecting database table (Entity class), you can start creating repositories. **You will have to create a repository per table**

The repository is responsible to fetch data from database thanks to your DAO and create the right entity to return.

To create the repository you have to : 
1. Create a new class ```src/db/repository/impl/[tablename]Repository.py```
2. Extends the ```src/db/repository/IRepository.py```
3. Implements all the method from IRepository
4. Test the repository in ```main.py```

# Fifth step

Now you have the repositories done, let's adapt the ```src/db/factory/impl/SQLiteRepositoryFactory.py``` to add these news repositories

The factory is responsible to create the database connection, inject it to the repository and return it

Example : 

```python
def get_artist_repository(self) -> ArtistRepository:
        """Get an ArtistRepository with a new connection."""
        return ArtistRepository(connection=self.get_connection(), verbose=self.verbose)
```




